# Javascript
Basic javascript fundamental

1- how to clone a repository

git clone <link of repository>

2- how to push your changes
step 1-git status - verify the file in which you have made the changes
step 2-git add <file name> update what if there are too many files ?
step 3-fit status just to just the files in green are the one we intend to push
step 4-git commit -m "your message here"

Whats is javaScript?
JavaScript is a scripting language that enables you to create dynamically updating content, control multimedia, animate images, and pretty much everything else. 
JavaScript was first known as LiveScript, but Netscape changed its name to JavaScript, possibly because of the excitement being generated by Java. JavaScript made its first appearance in Netscape 2.0 in 1995 with the name LiveScript. The general-purpose core of the language has been embedded in Netscape, Internet Explorer, and other web browsers.

--> The ECMA-262 Specification defined a standard version of the core JavaScript language.

-> JavaScript is a lightweight, interpreted programming language.
-> Designed for creating network-centric applications.
-> Complementary to and integrated with Java.
-> Complementary to and integrated with HTML.
-> Open and cross-platform


what is the difference between interpreter and compiler ?


-> MOST FAMOUS BROWSER AND THEIR JAVASCRIPT INGINE ->
Chrome - V8
Safari - JavaScriptCore
Edge - Chakra
Firefox - SpiderMonkey
Opera - Futhark

Where can we run javascript? 
To execute JavaScript in a browser you have two options — either put it inside a script element anywhere inside an HTML document, or put it inside an external JavaScript file (with a .js extension) and then reference that file inside the HTML document using an empty script element with a src attribute.

to develop the language / and to develope in language
browsers and node provide the runtime environment to execute javascript

ECMAScript VS JavaScript
ECMAScript:-
The full form of ECMA is European Computer Manufacturer's Association. ECMAScript is a Standard for scripting languages such as JavaScript, JScript, etc. It is a trademark scripting language specification. JavaScript is a language based on ECMAScript. A standard for scripting languages like JavaScript, JScript is ECMAScript. JavaScript is considered as one of the most popular implementations of ECMAScript.

JavaScript:-
JavaScript was first known as LiveScript, but Netscape changed its name to JavaScript, possibly because of the excitement being generated by Java. JavaScript made its first appearance in Netscape 2.0 in 1995 with the name LiveScript. The general-purpose core of the language has been embedded in Netscape, Internet Explorer, and other web browsers.The standard of scripting languages like JavaScript is ECMAScript.


Ecmascript specification / guideline - elaborate

V1 .. .. 2015 ES6  

Q1-what are the new features in ES6?
There are many new features are add in ES6. 
-> The let keyword  
-> The const keyword
-> Arrow Functions
-> The ... Operator
-> For/of
-> Map Objects
-> Set Objects
-> Classes
-> Promises
-> Symbol
-> Default Parameters
-> Function Rest Parameter
-> String.includes()
-> String.startsWith()
-> String.endsWith()
->Array.from()
-> Array keys()
-> Array find()
-> Array findIndex()
-> New Math Methods
-> New Number Properties
-> New Number Methods
-> New Global Methods
-> Object entries
-> JavaScript Modules

